# Functions

## Item 14: Prefer Exceptions to Returning None

1. Functions that return None to indicate special meaning are error prone because
None and other values (e.g., zero, the empty string) all evaluate to False in
conditional expressions.
2. Raise exceptions to indicate special situations instead of returning None. Expect the
calling code to handle exceptions properly when they’re documented.

## Item 15: Know How Closures Interact with Variable Scope

When you reference a variable in an expression, the Python interpreter will traverse the
scope to resolve the reference in this order:

1. The current function’s scope
2. Any enclosing scopes (like other containing functions)
3. The scope of the module that contains the code (also called the global scope)
4. The built-in scope (that contains functions like len and str)

Assigning a value to a variable works differently. If the variable is already defined in the
current scope, then it will just take on the new value. If the variable doesn’t exist in the
current scope, then Python treats the assignment as a variable definition. The scope of the
newly defined variable is the function that contains the assignment.

```python
def sort_priority2(numbers, group):
    found = False       # Scope: 'sort_priority2'
    def helper(x):
        if x in group:
            found = True    # Scope: 'helper' — Bad!
            return (0, x)
        return (1, x)
    numbers.sort(key=helper)
    return found        # Always return False!!!
```

In Python 3, `nonlocal` variable can be searched raversing up to the module-level scope

```python
def sort_priority2(numbers, group):
    found = False
    def helper(x):
        nonlocal found          # refer to 'found' defined in scope 'sort_priority2'
        if x in group:
            found = True
            return (0, x)
        return (1, x)
    numbers.sort(key=helper)
    return found
```

Workaround method in Python 2

```python
def sort_priority2(numbers, group):
    found = [ False ]
    def helper(x):
        if x in group:
            found[0] = True
            return (0, x)
        return (1, x)
    numbers.sort(key=helper)
    return found
```

***The trick is that the value for found is a list, which is mutable. ***

***Things to Remember***

1. Closure functions can refer to variables from any of the scopes in which they were defined.
2. By default, closures can’t affect enclosing scopes by assigning variables.
3. In Python 3, use the nonlocal statement to indicate when a closure can modify a variable in its enclosing scopes.
4. In Python 2, use a mutable value (like a single-item list) to work around the lack of the nonlocal statement.
5. Avoid using nonlocal statements for anything beyond simple functions

***Key argument in sort method***

```python
sort([cmp[,key[,reverse]]])
```
Sort method takes an option `key` argument, which can be any callable objects(lambda expression, closure, function, etc).
If key argument is given, the `cmp` action is taken on the result of `key`


## Item 16: Consider Generators Instead of Returning Lists

`Generators` are functions that use `yield` expressions. When called, generator functions do not actually run but instead
immediately return an `iterator`.

***Things to Remember***

1. Using generators can be clearer than the alternative of returning lists of accumulated results.
2. The iterator returned by a generator produces the set of values passed to yield
expressions within the generator function’s body.
3. Generators can produce a sequence of outputs for arbitrarily large inputs because
their working memory doesn’t include all inputs and outputs.
